one of the most important figures in
Chinese history of any Century ma is the
military genius who puts Humpty Dumpty
back together again he is also the most
brilliant psychopath in human history
that's taiwan's problem to this day they
are a rebuke to everything the Communist
party is how embarrassing The Losers of
the war have won the peace and put you
to shame for how incompetently brutal
you are the Communists lose
95% of their forces decimate means to
lose 10% % uh losing 95% I think you
need a whole new verb 40 million Chinese
starve to death for those of you who
think the Chinese are all great
long-term strategist you need to ponder
these numbers how is it possible to kill
so many of your
own uh what I'm about to say are my
ideas they don't necessarily represent
those of the US government the US Navy
Department the US Department of Defense
or the naval war College you got that
clear complain to me if you got problems
all right I'm going to talk about ma he
an incredibly consequential figure he's
uh for the 20th century he's one of the
most consequential political or military
figures and he's also one of the most
important figures in Chinese history of
any century and he's also a terribly
significant military and political
theorist and this is not an endorsement
of M it is rather just an accurate
description of his uh Global and
enduring importance and think about
China hisor ially it's represented I
don't know a third of the world's
population a third of the World's Trade
that's a big slice of humanity moreover
Mouse theories have been used by many
enemies of the United States to take
over failing States from within in order
to assert dictatorial rule he is also
probably uh the most brilliant and most
famous psychopath in human history and
that is saying a lot so here we go all
right this presentation is based on the
first eight volumes of steuart shr's
collected works of M what Shram did is
he uh compared Ma's complete works as
published in the 1950s to whatever he
could find as the earliest version of
whatever it was and then he reinserted
whatever had been cut in the italics in
italics so tonight watch watch the
italics and Ma didn't put all of his
best ideas in one place he scattered
them all over the place and so what I've
done is got to come for you all pre
prepared like a jigsaw puzzle of all of
these different ideas and then in order
to make it comprehensible to you of all
these random little little tidbits you
have to have like a coat rack to hang
all the hangers and that's called a
simple framework and I'll get there but
in your own lives when you've got all
kinds of complicated things to transmit
to others you can look at what I'm doing
tonight and you can do it for other
things as well so here we go with good
old Mau and oh by the way a lot of those
8,000 7,000 Pages weren't that
interesting so no way you owe me all
right
so all right these are major military
theorists just to uh run you through
them cloz is the West's major military
theorist of bilateral conventional land
Warfare sunza is Han civilization's
great the of how you maintain power in a
continental Empire multilateral World
using coercion and
deception the Two Fellas on the right
are Maritime theorists in a way they're
writing the missing chapters of clait it
doesn't talk about Naval Warfare at all
the top one is Alfred the Mahan the
naval war College's finest and what he's
writing about are the prerequisites for
and strategic POC uh possib ilities for
maritime power and the Britain
underneath him there uh sir Julian
Corbett is writing about how a maritime
power I.E Britain can defeat a
continental power I.E Germany or France
but all of them are writing about
Warfare between states and Ma is a
different event ma is has to do with
Triangle Building the term Triangle
Building comes from clawz clawz has this
nice little passage here where he's
talking about these abstractions passion
creativity and rationality as being
mainly but not exclusively Associated
respectively with the people military
and government a state has full up
military and civil institutions that has
some connection to their people but an
Insurgent is going to be building these
things from the ground up so that's what
Mao is doing is he's actually taking
over the host from within by building a
shadow government and eventually taking
power and um many uh of the decolonizing
world after World War II we're really
sick of the West they've been colonized
didn't want to hear anything about them
but it seemed as if the Soviets or the
Chinese perhaps offered a better model
the Communists and many thought that the
Chinese M ma offered the better model
why because uh the decolonizing PO parts
of the world were also Agricultural and
underdeveloped unlike Russia which had
quite a military uh excuse me an
industrial base and so they thought ma
was the more relevant guy
all right here's Ma at his iconic moment
he's proclaiming the victory of the
Communists in the Chinese Civil War
China had been a broken State basically
since 1911 when the last Dynasty had
fallen and the country had broken out
into a multilateral civil war that he
eventually wins and there's a I'm going
to be talking tonight about ma theories
in the from the 1920s and 30s when he
had the time to write but there's a lot
more to ma than just that he had quite a
track record once he won the Civil War
he imposed a social Revolution what's
that it's more than a political
revolution you're not just replacing the
government you're going to wipe out
entire social classes and I don't mean
then hey here's your one-way ticket out
of here kind of way no no uh social
Revolution is here's a mass grave dig it
and then you're in it kind of way so if
you look at these statistics of Chinese
deaths and many of their Wars this is
from much of the Mal period I think it's
45 to 75 what you'll notice the figures
in uh White I believe are civilian
deaths not military deaths and uh it
gets really quite ugly there are more
Chinese civilian deaths here than all
deaths in World War II and then for
those of you who think the Chinese are
all great long-term strategists you need
to ponder these numbers how is it
possible to kill so many of your own
that's generally not a mark of good
strategy moreover
most of them died during the Great
Famine which was the only Nationwide
famine in Chinese history why because
it's not caused by the weather it's
caused by policies set in Beijing during
the Great Leap Forward ma put all the
peasants on communes that meant the
party was in control of the food supply
I.E who lives and who dies you don't get
a meal you're very dead in addition he
decentralized industry and you can see
these backyard furnaces pictured here as
a result of this production collapsed
Colles agricultur and Industrial but Ma
keeps exporting food why because that's
his pocket change that is uh a major
source of government income if he wants
to be able to do anything so they keep
exporting food as a result 40 million
Chinese starve to death primarily in
rural areas and disproportionately
peasant CH girls the least valued
members of
society uh the the the statistic of 40
million deaths comes from this book by
Yang Jiang who's written the definitive
work the English translation is but one
volume the Chinese original is three
Yang worked as a journalist for many
years which gave him access to
provincial archives where he
surreptitiously invested this
investigated the statistics of people
who are starving to death uh including
his father for whom he wrote this book
to serve as an eternal Tombstone so on
the one hand ma is the military genius
who puts Humpty Dumpty back together
again when nobody else could and they
tried for the previous 40 years on the
other hand he is the psychopath
incapable of running economy in peace in
peace time yet many Chinese rever him as
a national hero why because in their
minds certainly of the Han the
preponderant uh group in China One of
the key things that their country should
and must be is a great power and now by
reunifying China under the ban Banner of
Communism and then fighting a the
Coalition of all the major capitalist
powers to a stalemate in the Korean war
or in their mind a victory uh that
constitutes ending what they consider
the era of humiliations that started in
the mid 19th centuries and end with a
Communist Revolution so he's a hero uh
at home all right to understand Ma's
theories I need to put it in the context
of the wars that he fought so in 1911
Ching Dynasty collapses the country
shatters into a multilateral Warfare
among Warlords of these provincial
leaders and on this map you can see the
different colors and shadings those are
different warlord areas but the
Nationalist party and the Communist
Party form a united front in
1923 in order to eliminate these
Warlords and so uh shank Kai Sheek who's
the head of the Nationalist party uh
general liimo not just a general he is
the man who's leading the northern
expedition to fight off all the Warlords
except he stops Midway near his power
base in Shanghai and he turns on the
Communists massacres them in droves this
is the white Terror why because he
thinks that while he's away fighting
they're trying to take over his
government he's correct so he keeps on
moving there there's a nominal
unification of China under nationalist
rule when this takes
place in addition addition once he's
done with that then he wants to
eliminate the Communists for good and so
he runs a series of five encirclement
campaigns around their base areas that
are scattered in South China the primary
base area base area is also called a
Soviet is the jangi Soviet and on the
fifth encirclement campaign shankai
Sheek is finally successful and he sends
them off on the Long March up to way up
north in desolate yenan Long March is a
real misnomer it's the long long route
and the Communists lose
95% of their forces I believe in English
decimate lose it means to lose 10% uh
losing 95% I think you need a whole new
verb for what's happened to you but
shankai Sheek doesn't wipe them out
because he's suffering from divided
attentions when the West did the
original uh well both the United States
and Europe the United States does its
original America first thing with a
holly smooth tariff putting tariffs up
to Historic highs and then everybody of
course retaliates so now everybody's got
high tariffs well here's trade dependent
Japan that's always cooperated with
everybody and suddenly they're toast and
so their solution is autarchy and they
need an Empire large enough to be
autarchic and so then that's when they
invade manua in 1931 so shankai Sheek
has all of a sudden lost this area from
China That's greater than Germany and
France combined it's a mess and so he he
has to he's trying to balance what to do
about Japanese versus
uh communist the Japanese don't quit
with Manchuria they stabilize the place
they make massive infrastructure
developments they transform it into the
most developed part of Asia outside of
the home Islands but they keep on going
and it gets so bad that the Communist
and the uh nationalists form a second
united front because they're facing this
lethal threat called Japan and they uh
organized that in December 1936 in
what's known as a Shion incident and the
Japanese react viscerally because
they look at it the nationalists have
gone over to the dark side because
they've joined up with the Communists
and this is when the Japanese escalate
1937 go down the Chinese Coast up the
yanga river uh and well but then then
they wind up stalemating once they get
beyond the Chinese Railway system which
isn't that great in this period the
Japanese can't stabilize the place and
the Soviets start adding more Aid and we
add more Aid it's a mess so the Japanese
decide they're going to cut Western Aid
to the Chinese and that's where Pearl
Harbor comes in that's what the attack
of Pearl Harbor is all about is telling
Americans stay out of Asia which of
course you know we did just just the
opposite and then the Nazis um interpret
their alliance with the Japanese broadly
to declare war in the United States so
when that happens you have a regional
war that had already been going on over
Poland in Europe and this other war that
been going on since 31 in Asia they
unify to a global World War now
uh
understood that he was dealing with
three layers of warfare nested Wars that
he was fing a civil war against the
nationalists within a regional war
against Japan and then after Pearl
Harbor there's going to be a global war
that'll eventually morph into a global
Cold War most of his writings are
written before Pearl Harbor so he's
going to focus on the first two layers
of what's going on here so after uh the
world two is over ma uh goes after the
Nationalist full boore and the Japanese
have already very much weaken the
nationalists and uh shankai uh ma wins
the Civil War okay these are the wars
now I promised you a simple framework
here's the simple framework simple
framework should have three to three to
five things because that's all about any
of us could really handle on short
notice and so I got four here and I'm
going to use K clitz his definition of
great leadership to analyze ma according
to clwt in a general two qualities are
indispensable first is an intellect that
even in the darkest hour and Ma had many
of those retain some glimmering of Inner
Light which leads to truth and second
the courage to follow that faint light
wherever it may lead the refers to these
qualities is described by the French
term Kudo cou is a glance oi is an I
taking in a situation with a glance of
an eye and the second is determination
well ma had these things in m in
numerous areas he was uh I'm going to
first discuss Mal the propagandist
that's how he starts out and then I've
got what I say here is ma the social
scientist but what he was really good is
data analysis data collection and
Analysis he truly understood the C the
countryside because he collected all
sorts of data about it and analyzed it
and then I will go on to ma the
operational military leader winning and
fighting battles and then at the end
I'll talk about M the grand strategist
integrating all
uh elements of National Power so that's
my game plan that's the simple framework
and away we go all right ma began his
Public Service career as a propagandist
and if you look at his early biography
he's born in 1893 to a prosperous but
not particularly well-educated father
who tilled his own land now hated his
father and he hated farming so he left
as soon as possible after the 191
Revolution for a little while he worked
as a soldier didn't like that
he uh joined and then dropped out of a
series of vocational schools he tried
being a what was it a merchant a lawyer
I'm missing something else a soap maker
imagine M three stages of personal
hygiene whatever it was not to be but he
eventually uh gets an ed degree so he
can go off and be a primary school
principal okay imagine setting your
child off uh went to the psychopath
doing show and tell it's not and then he
joins the Communist party and it's
during the first United front so he also
joins the Nationalist party and he has
very important positions if you look at
he's in the National Party he's at their
Central headquarters and he's the minute
taker so he's the fly in the wall
listening to everything and then he's a
standin for the head of the propaganda
Department which is probably where he
learned a great deal about the
importance of propaganda and here's what
he says early on the Communist Party can
overthrow the enemy only by holding
propaganda pamphlets in the in one hand
and bullets in the other and if you look
at the original uh organization chart of
the Shadow communist government you'll
see there only what six departments
there one of them is a propaganda
Department if you have no power words
are are is your initial we in to gaining
power I'm now going to use a framework
from my wonderful colleagues Mark janest
and Andrea do this is theirs about
analyzing strategic Communication in
terms of messenger message and medium
and I'll go through each three all three
what you see here is a propaganda poster
it's a wood block print that's the
medium and it's a very easy way to
reproduce pictures back in the day the
message is about a model laborer this
always emulate wo lucky ass uh and to do
all the nice things he does with
whatever is going on there so that's
what that is now Messengers were the
delivery system the broadcasting system
for the Communist party so you got the
Communist party but you got to reach an
audience and that's what these
Messengers are are doing and so they go
into local areas and they identify local
uh grievances for attention by the
Communist party which when it fixes them
or fixes somebody um that will U
generate loyalties and Allegiance so
these uh propaganda Personnel uh would
be identifying local bullies to come in
and deal with of them organize Mass
rallies uh during battles they're going
to double as Medics after battles
they're going to propagandize PS between
B battles they are um helping on troop
morale but what they're really doing is
reporting back to communist Central
exactly what's going on and civil and
Military Messengers differ for civil uh
Messengers they would be activists maybe
in the local government labor unions
peasant organizations women organ
organizations any number of these things
and it's it's your broadcasting system
to reach a population and mobilize it
military Messengers are a little
different every single military unit had
about a 20 member propaganda team that's
a lot of people according to ma the
propaganda work of the Red Army is
therefore um first uh priority work of
the Red Army this is very different from
soldiering in the west this is not how
it would work also ma had his
International broadcasting system these
would be foreign journalists while he
while was holding Court up in Yan on he
invited many of these journalists up
there Edgar snow was by far the most
famous why because he was like the first
one in and then he was the last one out
and he had really long interviews with
Ma and when he was a young man he never
asked why does this um uh aess political
leader spending so much time with me
that never occurred to Edgar but you
know it's ours and and he was very fine
writer Edgar snow
and what uh Edgar snow writes red star
over China you can probably go to Barnes
& Noble and pick up a copy there it's
been in print ever since and it's the
original footnote in Chinese history
because no one knew anything about Mao
and so then everybody starts citing
Edgar snow and then we cite everybody
and everybody and everybody but actually
it only goes back to Edward Ed Edgar
snow so um ma got his his word out ma
thought you want to keep the message
simple you want to make it epigrammatic
so that people can understand it rapidly
in his day this meant having matching
slogans to uh the equivalent of
newspaper headlines to provide a lens
for people to understand events rather
like Tweets in our own day so when the
white Terror occurred when this is when
shankai Sheek is turning on the
Communists in the first United front the
slogan was arm The Peasants and then
when the Japanese invaded Manchuria in
1931 the new slogan is down with
imperialism in the Nationalist party too
because you want to smear your enemy in
the in the Civil War while you're at it
there but there are a whole series of
these slogans and here ma is one of the
most popular poets in China certainly uh
of the 20th century he could write
really simple couplets and if you look
here I think it's a total of eight
characters so that someone who's semi
literate can make it their way through
this poem on the other hand he wrote
really complicated things because he
needed to Garner the support of
intellectuals initially before he'd
educated enough peasants and workers to
take over and intellectuals prize poetry
and also they prize what's called grass
writing which is that unintelligible
Chinese stuff writing under there if um
ma set these poems to tunes that
everybody knew people could sing them on
the on the Long March and elsewhere and
learn them that way so he's an
incredibly accomplished man he also
understood you have to manage the
message through and the way he did that
is through political mobilization part
of the of that is you've got to tell
people what the policy objective is
which for for him was abolishing
imperialism feudalism and the landlord
class and then presenting a strategy for
how to get there and here are the media
that he used not only the written and
spoken word but also the dramatic arts
in order to get the message out and he
also used an Institutional medium of
education and here is ma the primary
school teacher in his element um most of
the people at his armies were illiterate
but Ma knew all about how to reach them
there are a lot of political commissars
what are they political and Military
commissars come in a pair military
commissar is the the military
professional who actually knows about
the fighting the political commissar is
the one with the uh direct line the
secret police who will cap the military
commissar if there any problems
whatsoever so Ma has got an elaborate
Network to get the message out uh
offering all kinds of Social Services to
people uh not only Medical but also educ
ation for peasant children and he also
educated their parents this is for the
first time in Chinese history he did it
during the winter slack season now the
nationalists had also tried to improve
education uh but once the Japanese
invaded full
boore uh they had to drop it because the
Nationalist conventional armies are the
ones that are fighting off the Japanese
conventional armies the Communists are a
Guerilla movement and they're uh
operating Behind Enemy Lines so as the
nationalists are droning people into
their armies the Communists are busy
offering social services and I'll get to
land reform and so for the peasants
before too long it becomes a no-brainer
whom they're going to support ma also
emphasized professional military
education because he needs to turn
peasants to cadr to gorillas to
Conventional soldiers and there's got to
be an educational pipeline to do this
and if you look at this Northwest
counter Japan Red Army University the
first four Depart of the first original
departments political work is one of
them this is not professional military
education the way it's done in the west
it's a separate thing okay part one over
ma the propagandist I've covered that
now we're going to go about ma the
social scientist and here he says the
peasant problem is the central problem
of the national Revolution if the
peasants do not rise up and join and
support the national Revolution the
national resolution cannot succeed and
if you look uh at his further along in
his biography while the first uni United
front was still operative he's heading
the Nationalist party's peasant
Institute in guango and also their
Central Commission on the peasant
movement learning a great deal about it
but once the white Terror hits he needs
to get out of Dodge fast or they'll kill
him and that's where he flees to jangi
province to the jangi Soviet where he is
going to become the political commissar
of the fourth Army and he's also going
to be in charge of land reform as he
figures out how to calibrate that to
make it
work all right uh for ma he's doing
datadriven survey after datadriven
survey does a whole series of them
between 1926 and 1933 and he's trying to
figure who owns what who works for whom
who tells where and who and inventories
of uh down to the last pixor and last
chicken as he's trying to establish what
is really going on on the countryside
and uh he does and what he what he
concludes is that 6% of the rural
population owns 80% of the land and 80%
of the population owns only 20% and his
solution is going to be Revolution and
he goes further into the statistics he
identifies 70% as poor peasants 20% who
are like his father till their own land
they're middle peasants and then they're
the exploitative 10% who don't get their
hands dirty with anything and what Mao
is trying to figure out is how you can
incentivize 80% of those people into
actively taking part of the uh the
revolution this is the key and what he
wants to do is take the bottom of the P
social pyramid and uh mobilize it to
crush uh the top of the pyramid and way
he's going to to do this is by
determining class status through a land
investigation movement which he says is
a violent and ruthless thing we're going
to talk about class approval of class
status confiscation of land
redistribution of land in order to uh
invert the social paramid and he's got a
real plan for doing it uh he argues that
you've just that uh Land Reform is just
essential for peasant Allegiance this is
how you're going to get it to draw these
hundreds of millions into supporting the
Communists but you got to do it
sequentially you got to prop a Gand dies
first and then you're going to
distribute land later and he had a
little bit later and he had a very
bureaucratic uh way of redistributing uh
redistributing land uh the approval of
class status he said is a it's a life
and death decision for the person in
question and so it starts out with a
vote at the local level and then it goes
through many layers of part approval
before being sent back to the local
level to announce who's going to get
who's going to get the land and who's
going to take a bullet and then ma
leverages the enthusiasm of this move
movement for the people going to get the
land the other people not so much uh and
he's going to leverage this enthusiasm
to get people to join the party and also
to join the Army all right um ma uh is
planning to uh collectivize all land and
that's what the Communists are going to
do but he says look the system of
landlords and tenants cannot be
completely destroyed yet and because he
needs the peasants to join him and their
peasants desperately want land so ma
gives it to them and he gets a great
deal of support for for doing this but
he also um keeps the rich peasants
around too uh this is a deleted portion
in the collected words cuz Rich peasant
production Productions in indispensable
until he wins the Civil War and can then
turn the guns on them and he's also got
a duplicitous program for the middle
peasants it's a big bait and switch it
looks like you're going to get see you
got the land well now you do and now you
don't because at the end uh they're all
going to lose their land um in order to
uh reform uh to get the
land um Ma is talking about uh a Red
Terror to get it and uh this he while he
was still um with the Nationalist he
wrote a report on the peasant movement
in Hunan uh where he's talking about
taking all the land from the landlord
class and shooting them and that won't
cut it with the Nationalist Army because
their officers are landlords so as part
of his program it's not just land land
reform and educating people warm and
cuddly it's also
coercion okay that's M the social signs
enough of him now we're going to do ma
the military leader and you've probably
heard this Chestnut from Mao political
power grows out of the barrel of a gun
uh ma spent his uh is it's still part of
his early career being right but uh
being a minority view that he had
certain views about military operations
that was not shared by communist Central
and uh ma uh kept following that dim
light where wherever it may lead and
events eventually uh Vindicated him he
survived a variety of encirclement
campaigns but then he had some troubles
and here are his critics Lely son was a
labor organizer he was a facto head of
the Communist Party from 1928 to 1930
and after the white Terror on the
Northern Expedition uh Moscow had told
its uh communist buddies in China that
the next thing to do was to take the
cities and so leisan tries to with the
non Chang Uprising in 1927 total
disaster and he tries it again in 1930
with a chonga Uprising another disaster
and that gets him into Exile in in
Russia and according to Mao comrade
leisan did not understand the protected
nature of the Chinese Civil War leisan
is trying to fight the a decisive I.E
warning winning battle far too early you
try to do that you can get yourself
ruined here's another critic shangying
so Mao is in the jangi Soviet and he
thinks it's smart strategy is to lure
the enemy into your own terrain which is
favorable to you let them get exhausted
then you spring the Trap and you
annihilate them uh communist Central and
Shanghai thought this was nuts that you
shouldn't be seeding territory at all so
ma for the longest time he's off in
jangi they're off in Shanghai they're a
long way apart and so communist Central
can't do anything about it Ma does his
own thing thing so the Communist Central
sends shangying uh to uh jangi Soviet to
fire Mal personally and you can imagine
how this works for his later career not
well and he fires Ma and this is where
uh he winds his strategy winds up
producing the Long March the long
retreat in when which they lose 95% of
their people by trying to defend
territory so people began to get it that
may no may have known what he was doing
and then on the long
retreat Mao chose as his terminal point
of retreat like where are you going to
wind up as up in yenan way up north in
deep in Muslim and um Mongol lands but
near the Soviet border and M thought
that was essential because they're the
big benefactor whereas this gentleman JN
guau who was the military commissar of
the fourth Army s nonsense you want to
be in Han we're Han Chinese we want to
be in hanin land so he wanted to go into
Western Sichuan which he did and he uh
suffered a series of defeats over the
1935 uh and as a result he was never as
important ever ever again and eventually
defected to the Nationalist so Mao had
proven himself precient and right and
determined and he uh he had Kudo and
determination and people eventually
recognized that all right Ma and
clausewitz Define War somewhat
differently kwit has this famous Laine
war is thus an act of force to compel
our enemy to do our will M says n that
war is politics by other means it is
something that is used to achieve
political ends so far that's not
incompatible but then here's Mouse twist
A revolution is an uprising and act of
violence whereby one class overthrows
the power of another a clitz is not
about uh class Warfare at all in fact
his wife is always trying to whine and
dine the aristocrats so completely
different in that department now is
looking at the world and he believes the
lynchpin of the social order are
landlords and he's going to detonate
them and try to destroy them and uh he
talks about the violence of all of it
that you're going to get the peasant
masses to overthrow these landlords and
that this will uh it's going to require
Terror and in rural areas uh but this is
absolutely necessary and of course this
is what the nationalists absolutely
would not tolerate now also understood
he was operating in a period of nested
Wars and that the ones that were ongoing
were the the um civil war with the
nationalists and then the regional war
with Japan Pearl Harbor comes a little
later and uh he talked about defeating
Japan in three stages he said
defeating Japan requires three
conditions first is progress by China
the Civil War which is the basic primary
thing the second is difficulties for
Japan I.E the regional War and the third
is international support the big friend
I'm going to talk about each of these
three things in turn so in order to win
the civil war Mal believes you need base
areas these Soviets where are they
located on the often on the um
boundaries of provinces and ve very
difficult terrain where provincial
Authority let alone National Authority
simply does not extend
and Ma thought that there were certain
prerequisites for a good base area and
one is strategic terrain it's got to be
defensible so that the weaker Communist
forces can defend it against
conventional nationalist or conventional
Japanese armies so that's key pick your
terrain carefully also you need to have
a strong Red Army presence there to make
it work you need numerous organized
workers and peasants so you got to have
some local support there and then you
need a good party organization so this
is ma idea what you need for a base area
and he believed that you needed to match
uh your military unit the type of
military unit to the territory and he
said there are three kinds of territory
there's base areas there is enemy
controlled areas and then there is um
are the interface in between which is
where Guerilla forces are going to be
roaming so he was all about deploying
the Red Army to the comparatively safe B
base area they'll protect that uh
Guerilla detach you might send Guerilla
detachments to um some of the gorilla
areas but really only really small
things would you ever send into enemy
territory moreover he has prerequisites
to fight there are six possible
prerequisites two you got to have at
least two before you fight the most
important one is that people have to
actively support you you probably need a
base area to pull this off he said that
the last three things about enemy weak
points the enemy exhaustion enemy
mistakes those things could appear quite
rapidly but you better choose your
terrain very carefully terrain is
immutable he also said that uh if you're
weak the way the commies Communists were
you had to follow a strategy of
annihilation what you do is you
annihilate one small enemy unit at a
time and the cumulative effects will
eventually change the balance of power
only someone who is really strong can
tough out um an an attrition strategy so
um he's also about Triangle Building in
these areas so little gorilla
detachments go out into the interface if
it works out well it looks like they can
start either a new base area or expand
an existing one um that's what they're
going to be up to so these gorilla
forces are either a disposal Force which
you could send them out to do risky
things and if they get wiped out it
doesn't endanger base area um defense or
they can become a nucleus of a new base
area so in small Guerilla groups party
members are toughen Cadre is trained the
party government Mass organizations are
Consolidated and if they're successful
then you bring in the Red Army uh to do
higher level institution building and
either greatly expand an existing base
area or you're forming a new one is
what's going on um ma had two military
services we always think of Army Navy
Air Force that's not what it was for him
it was gorilla Forces versus con
conventional forces and what Guerilla
forces are operating in the rear of the
enemy is so that there's no stability or
security it's it's in fact there isn't
even a front line it's just it's so
amorphous and so what Guerilla forces um
are supposed to be doing is
Exterminating small enemy forces we
weaken larger ones attack Enemy Lines of
communications establish uh bases Force
the enemy to disperse but they're doing
all this in um qu combination with
conventional forces because here it's
the thing you think about Mao and its
gorillas well actually here's what Mao
really says regular forces are of
primary importance because it is they
who alone are C capable of producing the
decision like winning the war uh there
is in Guerilla Warfare no such thing as
a war-winning battle right uh gorillas
are it's it's the relationship of the
two is really important U also thought
that you needed to establish a fire
escape if you had a base area like if it
all goes south where do you go and his
terminal point of retreat for the Long
March was up in y on he thought it was
important to figure those things out in
advance ma also cultivated um an
unprecedented group of allies never
before assembled in Chinese history not
only peasants but women minorities youth
intellectuals enemy Army most creatively
uh for cultivating the allegiance of
peasants it wasn't just education and
land reform it was also Army discipline
this is where the three rules six points
for attention and uh couple additional
points which were enforced through 1949
when the Communists win the civil war
why you don't want to alienate the
peasantry these are the people uh that
are forming your cadres your gorillas
everything so maintain Army discipline
don't mess with it um ma also uh took an
incredibly uh forward-looking view about
women here he is with his Force wife the
actress the other three had suffered
respectively abandonment execution by
the nationalists and commitment to a
Soviet psychiatric ward not faints for
the
faint-hearted uh but Ma calculated that
women are about half the population
they're miserably treated so they're
Naturals for wanting uh a revolution
they're a force that will decide the set
success or failure of the Revolution he
calculated correctly and he was way
ahead of his times and he also
understood that in a Guerilla War you're
sending all the guys off to um be off
fighting and you've got to be building
base areas and things and this is where
women came in to do those activities and
as a result he offered women the
unthinkable which is men and women are
absolutely equal uh women have the right
to vote be elected participate in the
work of the government uh he's just way
ahead of his times uh ma also offered
minorities the previously unofferable
which was
self-determination and what the minority
people didn't get is that a promise made
in a really desperate civil war with a
regional War overlaying it once you win
those things and you can turn your guns
on those trying to secede uh that
promise may be unenforceable you can ask
the Tibetans and wagers how it all
worked out all right so uh ma strategy
um he had a strategy of disintegrating
the enemy Army and let me tell you how
that one worked uh you in every County
you select a large number of workers and
peasant comrades people below the radar
and then you insinuate them into the
enemy Army to become soldiers Porters
Cooks you lose women to do this as well
I talk about people who are below the
radar and you're creating a nucleus of a
Communist party to erode them from with
within and eventually it'll have um
it'll have a a shattering effect and he
said also part of this disintegrating
the enemy has to do with leniency a Sons
Advocates never put your enemy on death
ground death ground means that you just
have no that you're a dead person if you
don't fight so your only hope is to
fight and if you put someone on dead
death ground they tend to fight uh with
Incredible willpower and M is don't do
that so what he did when you capture
people uh propaganda I a little uh
recruit the willing but release the
unwilling so that the comparison of
communist leniency and nationalist
brutality becomes absolutely Stark in
this otherwise uh Pius War okay that's
the sore now we're going to go to the
pro the second problem which was Japan
the regional War ma made a really
thoughtful assessment of what were the
key characteristics of China that would
determine what kind of military strateg
would use and this is his assessment he
said okay China is a large semic
Colonial Country it's an undeveloped
country point one second its enemy is
really strong point two thirdly the Red
Army is weak and fourthly there's an
agrarian Revolution going on and from
this he concluded that Revolution was
definitely possible but it's going to
take a long time so he didn't kin
himself about quick wins he's going to
come up with a strategy for protracted
Warfare
and uh he thought that Japan had certain
weaknesses that the Communists could
leverage for instance the Japanese had
inadequate manpower to Garrison a
country the size of China this meant
that guerillas could roam far and wide
behind Japanese lines also the Japanese
were brutal just gratuitously brutal and
they're Outsiders and this means that
the peasantry are naturally going to
gravitate towards the Communists just
simply regardless of what the Communists
do just simply but based on what the
jaes are doing they're going to
gravitate towards the Communists and
also the Japanese had grossly
underestimated the Chinese and as a
result of these uh uh underestimating
the Chinese they made errors and when
they made errors they started quarreling
among themselves and making more errors
and the Communists could leverage these
things Ma's most
famous Paradigm theory is his three
stages of people's War the first stage
is the Strategic defensive it's the
prevent defeat f phe the last phase
phase three is a strategic offensive the
delivery Victory phase in the first
phase you're focusing on the peasantry
in the last phase you're annihilating
the enemy Army and if you look at
activities that go on in each phase the
activities of phase one and two never
cease rather you add additional
activities as confidence increases so in
phase one you're doing popular
mobilization base area building triangle
building Guerilla Warfare and then as
you get more of these things you then
you can start engaging in Mobile Warfare
try your handed a little conventional
Warfare reach out with diplomacy and
then if you go further in stage three
then you're talking positional Warfare
and you're going to have the war-winning
battle and how do you get from the phase
phases well the transition from phase
one to two is basically you have a
critical mass of Base areas cadres armed
forces that you can move into phase two
but the problem of being in phase two is
what it looked like isolated acts of
banditry in Phase One to the incumbent
government now the incumber government
gets it that they're facing a an
Insurgency bent on regime change and the
regime changes strategy and so the
Communists are no longer under the radar
but they're in the crosshairs and it's
dangerous because they're weak and the
enemy is strong so when you transition
to phase 2 and initially is quite
dangerous and here's um uh ma writing
about these problems and saying look in
in this stages one and two the enemy is
trying to have us concentrate our main
forces for a decisive engagement I.E
decisive in their favor they'll win the
war because they'll annihilate us and of
course this is uh what general West
Morland was trying to do in the Vietnam
war is getting the North Vietnamese to
concentrate so he could blow them off
the map and of course they'd read their
Ma and didn't do that nonsense so uh ma
is saying you only fight when you're
sure of Victory and
also uh in order to get to phase three
you need a big friend why because phase
three is conventional Warfare which
requires uh uh infinite supplies of
conventional armaments that requires an
industrial base to produce it and
somewhere like China lacks this
industrial base and so uh good old
Soviet Union played this role the the
world over and so this is the secret
sauce of people's War if you want to get
to phase three you need a big buddy and
that's where the Soviet Union came in
and so this is why ma determines that
yanan's going to be his terminal point
of retreat he's I'm fighting my way
through to the Soviet Union no kidding
you got to have the conventional arms to
fight this stuff what's interesting
about Ma's description of people's war
is it actually applied not so much to
the war with Japan which he claimed it
applied to but rather to the civil war
with the nationalists and here is the
key uh Mao didn't actually fight the
regional war against Japan the
nationalists did the nationalists did
every bit of the conventional fighting
except one and that's the the 100
regiments campaign that Ma fought North
China in 1940 and he was was smeared the
Japanese rep uh responded with a three
alls Campaign which is kill all burn all
loot all which is what they did and it
wiped out loads of Chinese of communist
base areas in North China so ma never
tried that ever again and he certainly
didn't write about it in his collected
works you know don't talk about failures
there so it's interesting what he's
talking about really applies to the
Civil War and Ma understands these
different layers so as the nationalists
are busy fighting the Japanese and
actually being destroyed by them uh the
Communists are pretending that they're
fighting the Japanese they're later
going to take credit for it and say we
won against the Japanese which is
nonsense there was also the United
States in in in that as well uh because
he's he's using that to strengthen the
Communists during all of this but rural
mobilization so when the Japan's
defeated in the Communist when Civil War
resumes full bore he's in a good
situation okay that's it on Ma the
operational military leader at the
operational level now let put it all
together as ma the grand strategist of
linking all elements of national Strate
uh Power into a coherent strategy these
are Ma's instruments of National Power
uh the peasantry propaganda Land Reform
base areas institution building Warfare
and diplomacy the US military when
they're thinking uh about elements of
National Power love this little
framework dime because D is for
diplomacy I intelligence m for military
e for economics as as being critical
elements of National Power look it's
better than only looking at the military
elements at least you got three more
things but if you look at uh if you look
at what Ma uh it's this is not a cookie
cutter event this is a different society
different National elements of National
Power uh are available you've got to get
to the other side of the tennis court
net to see what the other team is doing
all right ma uh is famous from all these
reasons but also for his cific of
Marxism where he makes uh all the things
that I've told you about it makes uh his
version of Marxism much more applicable
to these countries the newly independent
countries after World War II of how they
put things together and he positions
himself to uh replace Stalin who dies in
1953 as the leader of Communism so ma
was pressent on numerous levels
he was certainly pre about the
centrality of the peasantry he was way
ahead of his times on the importance of
women he was calculating and cunning on
how he was going to use minorities and
PS uh he had proven his Kudo and
determination with his military strategy
he
also anticipated when the Japanese War
in China would stalemate and he also
anticipated more or less when the United
States was going to get into the war in
Asia uh and he's the great cinier of
Marxism all right
ma produced all kinds of Concepts and
paradigms that are useful for insurgents
who are trying to take over the host
from within and I've listed all a
variety of them here and I'm going to go
through them in turn and these are the
things that the counterinsurgent then
has to counter all right rural
mobilization this is obviously a big
deal in Ma and if you compare I'm going
to be doing a lot of comparisons with
the Vietnam War and the Korean War
because they're Communists and all these
things and uh you can see Ma's rural Mo
mobilization was very successful in
China the North Vietnamese rural
mobilization was also really good South
Korea not so much why the leader I mean
of North Korea trying to immobilize the
the peasantry in the South that wasn't
so successful and why Sigman Reed the
leader of South Korea immediately did
land reform and uh this glues loyalty of
soldiers to to uh to the leadership
doing this and maybe that is not the
only Factor but a an important factor
for why the Korean War turns out
differently base areas MOS those are
really important the North Vietnamese
used them to great effect they had all
kinds of areas in in the South and then
on the borders of South Vietnam North
Korea not so much it couldn't form base
areas in the South why it's a peninsula
which the US Navy cut off it's also cold
so where you going to flee if you're uh
want to do a base area I think it's up a
mountain in South Korea and that will
get cold in the winter and you probably
freeze to death I believe uh Al Qaeda
means the base that's the I believe
that's the correct translation so if
you're thinking about Isis or whatever
or whatever's left of it uh you can go
back to Ma's ideas about base areas that
you need particular kind of geography
that's good for the defensive you got to
have a big party organization a lot of
local support uh you got to have an
military forces there uh does al Qaeda
well it's be Isis or something do they
have all four or four of these things or
can you remove any one of them all right
another uh idea for Mao is luring the
enemy in deep and uh Mao had done that
very successfully in the third first
three encirclement campaigns and then he
was removed from command so he wasn't
doing that anymore and uh and again in
the final phases of the Chinese Civil
War the 45 to 49 event Mal lure is the
Nationalist deep into Manchuria and the
the nationalists are a South China
phenomenon right I showed you the map
the map shankai Sheek starts in the
South and he goes way up North so he's
weakest in the north but Ma lures him
way up way up there in Manchuria and
then he Springs the Trap and destroys um
shankai sheeks armies up there and then
the ENT entire Civil War wraps up within
a year of that so um ma also lured good
old General MacArthur who Fant fancied
himself a great asianist in the Korean
War he Mark Arthur goes all the way up
to the yo river right on the Chinese
Border in the Korean War and the mouse
Springs a trap and MacArthur didn't
realize that a I don't know 350,000
Chinese troops had been infiltrated
around him oops missed
that it it did not work out well but for
the US Navy now
uh needs to think about what about being
lured into the South and East China seas
and then the Chinese pulling the Trap uh
it's there are places you don't need to
go uh the Chinese may have to go there
but maybe you don't have to another one
is terminal point of retreat I've talked
about yenon being a really good one and
that worked uh and then when the Manan
campaign initially wasn't going well for
ma he retreated up to siing which is a
little bit north and that worked well
enough but when when shankai Tre tried
to pick these Manchurian cities as a
place to retreat in Manchuria bad news
there's only one Railway system that
gets you South out of manua you suppose
the Communists don't know about it and
uh they encircled the nationalists in
these cities and destroyed them there so
when you're thinking about insurgents
and things think about well if you knock
them out of one area where might they go
next all right another uh concept from
ma is disintegrating enemy forces which
is what happens to the Nationalist think
about shankai Sheek had been fighting
since uh the
1920s and forever and ever and ever and
he fought the Japanese they're brutal
the United States had trouble fighting
the Japanese and shankai Sheek fought
them alone for a long time before we
joined the war and yet he loses a battle
in 48 in uh Manchuria and that's the
rest of the country wraps up so what was
going on there or the South Vietnamese
they'd been fighting forever and then
the whole place just wraps up and the
same thing with Japan in World War II
that um they've been fighting all over
the place forever fighting us uh
brutally and then in 1945 we don't even
have to invade the home Islands think
how unusual that is the Germans fought
every street on the way to Berlin the
Japanese uh quit and this is
disintegrating the enemy and why it
happens but what you can say in all
those three cases is the Warfare had
been going on for an incredibly long
time and it was ruinous and the places
in question were ruined so don't expect
that to happen too fast and of course um
Ma's big contribution or his three
stages of people's war and Ma presents
them as sequential you go from one to
two to three and Tada you win and
they're cumulative right you do certain
things and then they're and then you get
to phase too and they're you you've had
this cumulative effect of destroying
enemy forces and you getting more
accumulating uh casualties on the other
side finally win a student of mine said
that's actually not a great way to look
at or even better way to use it is like
a metric of how an Insurgency goes up
and down so that Isis may be on the cusp
of going to stage three I don't know
they ever really well possibly with all
the equipment they got initially or
whether then they get B knocked back to
stage one where you wonder whether they
still exist anymore and come back and
forth anyway that was that person's take
I thought I'd pass it along to you all
right I have one last thing to talk
about um now is it when you read these
7,000 pages and I don't recommend it
uh um one is struck by all these
dualities and I think it goes back to
Yin and yangang Analysis which is very
prominent in traditional Chinese
thinking so if you look at Ma discussing
Triangle Building it's in terms of the
the presence or absence of factors
presence absence being opposites so
you're going from the absence of
political power to the seizure of
political power from the absence of the
Red Army to the creation of the Red Army
and it goes on and on that studying the
differences and connections between
dualities is a task of studying PR
strategy and it's really everything so
to defend in order to attack to retreat
in order to advance uh it it it goes on
and on and it and it's all about um
correctly orienting yourself with uh
between these opposites so oppose
protracted campaigns and the strategy of
a short war uphold the strategy of a
protracted war in a short campaign and
I'm starting to lose it and you've got
to you got to put everything in the
context of each other losses
Replacements fighting resting
concentration and dispersion and I'm
thinking I don't get this moue bipolar
disorder so I went to this gentleman
Brigadier General Samuel B Griffith he
is the only translator into
English uh of sunza who uh has a
distinguished military career and also
he went on to get uh a dill that's like
a PhD from Oxford in military history
and if you look at his career um he's in
China during the Japanese escalation of
the signo Japanese war he's back in
China does another tour at the end of
the Chinese Civil War he gets top marks
in the military's Chinese language
examine oh look at these details Navy
cross Purple Heart distinguished service
cross he's a distinguished man and for
retirement he decides he's going to go
get the the Oxford degree and he writes
the translation of sunza he is the only
translator of sunza who translates S as
death ground other people is like oh I
don't know I can't remember the the
words like I don't know contested ground
something else but I'm guessing that
when he chose those words death ground
it's because when he was thinking about
it it might well have conjured up his
memories of what exactly it was like to
be on guada Canal or new Georgia so uh
he has provided uh insights oh also the
other thing to mention about him is he's
really modest I had to dig around to
find these biographical details they're
not on the cover of his book which is
where they should be and his service to
his country continues to this day
because it's
translation uh that continues to educate
officers now what is it over 40 years
after his death but here's his take in
every apparent disadvantage some
Advantage is to be found the yin is not
holy Yin and the Yang is not holy Yang
it is only the wise General said the
sunza who is able to recognize this fact
and turn it to good account and of
course ma could and he did but in peace
time choices are not by AR they're
graduated and evolution is much more
conducive to Economic Development than
Revolution before we move on to the
interview a quick word from our sponsors
scale AI the AI race is the Manhattan
Project for the Modern Age whoever wins
reshapes the balance of global power
that's why scale partners with the US
government to fuel America's AI
advantage through their data Foundry the
Air Force Army defense Innovation unit
and chief digital and artificial
intelligence office all trust scale to
equip their teams with eii ready data
and the technology to build powerful
applications scale recently introduced
defense llama scale's latest solution
available for military personnel with
defense llama military personnel can
hardness the power of AI to plan
military or intelligence operations and
understand adversary vulnerabilities
whether through its work with the
government or business business like
open AI Google Deep Mind or meta scale
is at the Forefront of us AI Innovation
if you're interested in learning more
about how scale Powers Frontier AI
capabilities go to scale.com
dwar all right back to Sarah so here's
something I'm confused by you were
talking about Mao as a
shrewd uh Commander somebody who had
studied not only the military but had
also compile these rigorous records of
farm life and Agriculture and everything
and then you fast forward to when he's
in power and you go to the greatly
forward and some of the things that he
was doing it just you can't imagine that
somebody thought this was a good idea
that peasants would take off the Harvest
wouldn't attended the crop but they're
going to make iron in their backyards
they're going to shoot the sparrow and
have a locust infestation how do we
Square this shrewdness in the beginning
and this idiocracy level ideas in the
great Le forward oh uh well first of all
you need to think about what his
objective is which number one is stay in
power right and number two is probably
Communist party in power and his visions
of Revolution so that's one thing so
then you're you're worried about welfare
of people as if that's the primary
objective it most certainly is not and
then he may have assumed that it came
along with these things and that's a
whole problem with uh communist IDE
ideology is people don't believe it
because they know it's wrong they
believe it because it's right and
there's a whole problem with that about
Labor theories of value and things it
turns out there are things called
services that are all valuable and so
the the basic theory that he's
implementing is incorrect it just and it
takes the Communists a little while some
of them haven't figured it out but takes
them a little while to figure out their
parts that don't work but there's a
whole other uh uh piece to him is think
about our own world how much expertise
does any individual have it's amazing
the man reunited a continent and he did
all those things and then to expect him
to then run a peacetime economy is crazy
but of course he wants to do it so he he
stays there or if you think about like
in Britain uh Winston Churchill great
wartime leader but he's booted out of
office right after that war if you think
about uh different capabilities of
people so don't expect one individual to
do everything so that's a whole other
problem so when Ma's running stuff from
afar this is a country with how many
people it hadn't hit a billion then but
it's hundreds of millions and it's been
Shattered by warlord rule forever and so
how are you going to extend central
control to the countryside really tricky
I suspect that's why he puts them on
communes because it it lines up with
Communism but it also lines up with
party control because if you put all
this vast population because most our
peasants on communes then you control
whether they eat or don't you truly
control them so it's it's those factors
it's it's so big when you when you start
putting a policy in in place from
Beijing and then how that actually fans
out over the whole country it's got to
be a mess different localities and
things but when I compare him to other
even other communist leaders which ones
so if you look at Stalin for example yes
he causes the Hol War right 3 million
people die but that details yeah but
that was an intentional famine where he
was trying to root out the K the great
Le forward was like he wasn't trying to
kill tens of millions of Chinese and
there's instances in the 20s where
Stalin threatens to resign and people
close to him the molotov and others say
you can't do it because nobody else can
run the government like you can yeah
right I true but the the the level
of um yeah it doesn't seem like Stalin
was a devoted communist and that led to
many deaths but it didn't seem he didn't
seem deluded in the same kind of way the
ma was well first of all Russia is a um
a quite a developed country compared to
China and if you think about it Russia
had been
industrializing uh since the late 19th
century and China is a much later event
uh Russia also has all sorts of
institutions and things that China was
lacking so already uh Stalin has many
more tools at his disposal than what the
the Chinese Communists are going to have
uh also the kind of warfare think about
the Warfare in China in you get the
taiping Rebellion it's only the biggest
of the peasant rebellions of the 19th
century and I can't remember people
estimate I can't remember was 20 or 30
million people uh that's a large number
right CU I think World War II is
supposed to be like 50 5 million so this
is there are a whole series of these
peasant rebellions in the 19th century
that go on for I don't know 25 50 years
if if one's here one's there they by the
end of it they've basically devastated
uh parts of every Province and then you
overlay this with the Warlords coming in
and all of that overlay that with the
Communist nationalist thing overlay that
with the Japanese uh you're talking
about a massively trash country and
think about it I'll give you another
example for Americans in the room and
for others who aren't Americans you'll
have to based on your dealings with
Americans the this country had a civil
war it ran what four or five years it
was mostly in the South Northerners came
uh joined armies and then went to the
South the institutions of government
didn't change in Washington they
certainly did in the Confederacy but
those were new things right cuz they
were trying to
secede and uh many the losing side of
that war still hasn't gotten over it
right right so if that's what's going on
here and that thing wasn't nearly as
brutal as the kind of Civil Wars at the
end of the Civil War uh who gets uh Le's
Army is allowed to go home they aren't
shot on site which would be the kind of
thing that went on in the Russian Civil
War and Chinese Civil War so if that
kind of bitterness and unsettledness is
still present in this highly uh
institutionalized wealthy country this
one you better believe China's a mous so
then when you're wondering why ma can't
surf that wave no one
can just to linger on this uh
oh so new exit
strategy the even if he's not a
specialist on agriculture and even if
China is a hard country to govern he was
somebody who was shrewed in the sense of
when these battles are happening I
imagine if some somebody came up to him
and said we're winning these battles and
it's a total fabrication they're in fact
losing these battles you would have been
quick enough to realize listen this is
just wishful thinking I realize you're
just trying to make me feel good but
this this is a lie and I'm not going to
stand for it whereas if you go to the
great Le forward people will millions of
Chinese are dying and they come to him
and say the grain Harvest have never
been higher and he's like great let's
let's export our grain and just just
this ability to like have this basic
discernment of who is like what is
actually going on that situation
awareness is gone okay there's no
there's another there were um ma doesn't
become canonized as ma the or a mixing
metaphor the Emperor of China uh until
victory in the Korean War so in the
early period uh a lot of that mil oh uh
there Mao is supposed to have written
this book called on gorilla Warfare it
is not written by Mao it took uh time to
figure it out for Outsiders it's written
by Pung deai and others his his generals
and so there were many people's ideas
that went into winning the Civil War it
is not just Mau it's and then he winds
up purging these people later and so
it's it's not until after the Kore
during the Korean War he's busy purging
everybody massively because you can use
it as a big excuse right we got this war
we don't want to hear from these people
and so he has purged more and more and
more and more people so that there are
fewer and fewer counterarguments it's a
real case against dictatorship for all
the chaos of Party politics uh you're at
least you're forced to confront the
counter argument it is a healthier
situation to be in let's go back to the
end of World War II okay so if you look
at basically all the main actors none of
them get even most of what they want
some of them get the exact opposite of
what they want Germany and Japan
initiate to expand their territory both
of them end up with the smallest
territory they've had in a long time
Britain starts the war or not starts but
and joins the war in order to to defend
Poland Poland ends up in uh totalitarian
occupation afterwards and the British
Empire
disintegrates but Stalin ends up with
the borders of the Soviet Union vastly
expanded China becomes
communist how how do we make sense it's
St just like a master strategist here I
believe there's a detail of how many
tens of millions of Russians died on
that thing so I great it's I great it's
a personal success for him uh it's the
numbers of Russians who were destroyed
in that are incredible so um okay for
dictators yeah they can have personal
successes I think more it's in uh these
horrible Wars that uh dictators can rise
also great depressions provide uh Hot
House conditions for dictators so uh
yeah I think the lesson is the last
thing you want to do is fight a World
War but um as Britain discovered in
World War II if the Hitler's insistent
you're stuck right it might be a lesson
for our own day right isn't this
Ukraine's problem they didn't want to
fight a war what are you gonna do Putin
launched uh we don't exactly want to
fight a war well what do you want to do
let Putin do whatever he wants for
forever for however long he wants uh the
reason you all are prosperous is there's
a global Maritime order in which people
obey rules because it is so much cheaper
to oby rules because what are you do
when people break the rules you hire a
lawyer it's not protection money or um
starting to blow up each other's bill
buildings and destroying wealth at an
incredible clip is which is what you're
seeing going on in Ukraine so these
things are consequential none of us
makes all the choices and when other
people make bad choices you're stuck
responding to them before Mao before the
Communists W completely won the Civil
War did people anticipate how truly how
terrible the the Communist power would
end up being in
China uh I doubt it um I think uh
communism was a new thing right so youve
got it going on with the
Russians uh yeah I mean the na the the
nationalists were telling us that it
would be like this and we looked at them
and go what could be worse than the
nationalists because they are desperate
situation with all what the Japanese
were doing and then they get blamed for
it all yeah there can be something worse
than that we be called Communists but um
I don't I don't know that anyone could
have and predicted why you C can anyone
do a crystal ball what what the world's
going to be like in 10 years
yeah it it seems when you read the
history books that it had to be that way
and yet in our own lives we know that
it's
contingency of why things turn out as
the aggregate of all of our choices how
would you ever calculate that I wonder
if there's a lesson in there that you
America should be more open about
supporting corrupt somewhat autocratic
regimes because especially when they're
facing fanatical ideologues because
things really can get much much much
worse I think Americans need worry about
overextension any country has to worry
about overextension we have finite
resources also you're talking about
sending your fellow Americans go get
themselves killed and uh that's quite
that's quite something to ask someone to
make that kind of sacrifice see it had
better be worth it right and uh so there
are 300 million Americans well the
world's got 8 billion uh be cautious and
it's what's key on this Maritime order
the big insurance policy of it all is
our allies and institutions this is the
great gift of the greatest generation of
having created the UN which is how many
millions of lives have been saved from
polio vaccines and other things that
come through the UN it uh do not dismiss
these organizations they've done a lot
or the EU work through these things and
listen to your uh allies they'll they
will have insights and there's power in
allies tell me who China's allies are
the crazy man in Korea who can't even
feed people in the 21st century although
he certainly feeds himself but that's a
whole yeah I mean it's it's incredible a
China's who are who are China's friends
I mean Iran a theocracy I mean talk
about P who does theocracies anymore
okay the Iranians okay good on
them so after World War II the uh the
Soviets are giving the Communists in
China tremendous amounts of
leftover weapons from the
Japanese a bunch of other Goods uh
supporting them tremendously at the same
time uh
Truman you know is wishy-washy does an
actual arms embargo on chenek in 1946
the martial plan for Europe is 13
billion to help build up defenses
against communist uh appeal at the same
time Truman is has to be forced in
1948 by Congress to give a couple
hundred million to China literally 100th
of what was given to Europe and by that
time it's too late for Tang kek
the if you if you I mean if you just
look at that record it just seems like
sort of we've abysmally messed up after
World War II and helping the national
state in power right do not exaggerate
the capabilities of any one country for
openers but I think it's really
important to distinguish between nation
building and Nation rebuilding if you're
rebuilding which is what happens in
Japan and Germany they already had full
up institutions modern economies before
the war they had no problems with
educational institutions going all the
way up judicial institutions they had
competent police forces competent uh
they had uh parliaments and other things
so that when you uh give Germans some
cash they know ex and Japanese as well
they know exactly how to recreate things
and produce
uh uh rapidly produce modern
institutions you're talking about China
they' never had these institutions there
is no indigenous expertise oh and by the
way what's the illit the literacy rate
in China compared to Japan whoa no one
reads in China and everyone reads in
Japan it's not quite that bad so um and
we've had this problem in um Iraq and
Afghanistan so we decide we're going to
do the deification thing and then we
think the police are going to still show
up and work except no it's that's not
how it works they haven't got these
institutions and so it's not feasible to
a Marshall Plan in China would not have
worked and also we had really uh
competent Foreign Service officers in
China in this period why they're the
children of missionaries and so they
spoke fluent Chinese and had a deep
understanding of China and they were
saying it's hopeless that there is no
way shankai sh's going to win this this
thing because he's hated by the
peasantry um which he was uh because for
the reasons I've told you right if he's
busy droning them into his armies
because he feels he has no choices
whereas the Communists are giving them
land and educating them you better
believe who the The Peasants are
supporting and the missionaries they
were then caught up in the McCarthy
purges and were just about ruined lost
their jobs in the state department and
elsewhere only to be Exon ated I don't
know 10 15 20 years later when they've
already lost their careers and who knows
how they raised their
families I thought it was the case
George Marshall who was the envoy to
China the Diplomat I thought it was a
case that later on they realized it was
hopeless and so then they stopped
supporting Chang but at the time
different people realize it at different
times but but the reason they didn't
support Chang as much as they should
have was because they thought he was he
was in it was I mean the Communists were
seemed like hopeless underdogs and it it
was just thought that like Chang is
going to win and then therefore we don't
have to support him and they're
constantly goting the Nationalist to
form some sort of ceasefire do some sort
of coalition government when in fact
what should have done is like no you
have to make sure that you keep China no
it was considered hopeless this is
called making a an a net assessment of
not what you want it to be but an
accurate one they believed it was not
feasible even in like 1945 46 you're
talking hundreds of millions of people
we can't even deal with Afghanistan
today with what 20 million people uh
it's it's not feasible it's at the end
of World War II uh American GIS are sick
of it uh and as are their parents which
of fighting more Wars we didn't to send
G we just had to like not not cut off
support Europe has been leveled and
there's this absolute fear that the
Communists are going to move into Europe
which actually counts for uh Western
economies in those days the uh Italian
and French communist parties were
incredibly strong so all the focus of
limited resources is going to make sure
that Europe settles out and we don't
have infinite resources I feel you could
do better than one1 100th of the
Marshall Plan to keep China returning
communist and look what the consequences
was Vietnam we had to fight Korea we had
to fight Cambodia the genocide there got
it you but you can't solve all these
things there are things that are not
feasible I want to linger on this
because um you're an optimist anyway
maybe you're right but anyway you've got
my take on it and you've got I I can't
prove I'm right um that would be my take
I remember in your book which is to to
your right the word Asia you there's a
passage where you say there's so many
sort of individual con intention things
that led to the Communist taking power
if any of these factors was off the
outcome might have been different yes
the the fact of all these factors the
fact that American suppor or lack
thereof was not one of them it just
seems like it was a super contingent
thing but also America not being as
strong as they should have just didn't
matter I don't know that it it's just
not politically feasible
I mean talk about it you want to go um
put yourself back in those days you've
already done a three-year tour in World
War II because in those days you uh
started serving whenever it was in the
war and you weren't coming home until
the war was over it was none of this
nine Monon tours a year tour here and
there it was year there for the duration
so you get home and then you're told um
go make nice to the Chinese and go get
yourself killed there uh how is that
going to fly in your family probably
poorly I mean again you don't have to
send the gis there you can just give
them you can just not do an arms embargo
on them uh I think it was so Minor by
then it's too late the the great
question is some people would argue that
in 1946 when Marshall tells shankai
Sheek to stop halt his Advance this is
when he's doing quite well and when I
mentioned that the terminal point of
retreat for the nation for the Communist
was up in sipping Manchuria some would
argue that um Marshall should never have
done that he should have let the
nationalists go all the way up and that
would have changed the outcome of the
Chinese Civil War you can make an
argument that that might be true here's
the counterargument I don't know the
answer if you look at a map of China or
imagine one manua is way up it's like a
Salient into communist territory because
it's bordering all the Soviet Union and
then it's got quite um a coastline but
the Soviets had block ated that so
nothing's getting in that way the only
thing the only way given the Chinese
Railway system is literally one train
line connects Manchuria to South China
so it means shangai sh's movements are
incredibly predictable so one argument
you could make and people have and I
don't know the answer none of us does is
that hey that was the big error so if
that's the big error uh the mistake and
this is a common one that Americans make
so this is worth talking about is
Americans uh often don't look at Waring
parties to understand is if they are
primary
adversaries there is no way you're going
to make them make nice so the United
States had trouble for years trying to
get pakistanis and Indians to cooperate
and it would want to give Aid to both of
them and just didn't get it as long as
they're primary adversaries you Aid one
it infuriates the other and they're
never going to cooperate the two of them
or um I suspect what was going on in uh
Iraq and Afghanistan so you want to have
a democracy and you want to have all the
parties represented well if they all
want to obliterate each other the last
thing they want to do is have
representation of the other side right
so if you have parties that want to
exterminate each other the idea of
getting them to cooperate is impossible
so don't try it so that would be the
lesson from this thing of the we kept
trying to do a coalition government with
the Communists and the nationalists it's
a non-starter mhm but um we the United
States was a very isolationist country
and didn't have the attitude of a great
power until after World War II in World
War I uh we felt dragged into it and
these horrible Wars and that being quite
irresponsible during the Great
Depression and just ignoring everybody
else's problems didn't want to hear
about it and then we get a World War II
out of that and then we rethink that
whole proposition if you had to
speculate if suppose a nationalist win
um in Taiwan because they're forested
they have a very sort of pro-american
policy uh but if they had won in the
mainland China would it have been
similar where mainland China just turns
into Taiwan or would it have been
different no I'm sure it would be
different um one of the reasons Taiwan
is Taiwan is after they lost the Civil
War and they on the island of Taiwan
they did Big after Action Report um
analysis of what went wrong and they
decided it was corruption and that it
was Land Reform that they needed to fix
those things but they couldn't do land
reform on the mainland because that's
their officer core but when they come to
Taiwan they can more than redistribute
Taiwanese
land which they do and it's bloody
because the Taiwanese don't want their
land redistributed and they were the
Taiwanese were given bonds and they
thought those bonds would be like the
pieces of paper that were issued in the
mainland I.E worth nothing but actually
after time they became quite valuable
but l form was Bloody in
Taiwan and uh but it's um today Taiwan
has a very equal in income distribution
and what is the explanation for you were
just had these tallies of numbers up of
how many deaths through different events
and so there the famine obviously makes
sense a lot of people would die but you
just go down the list and there's so
many things where a couple million
people die and it's like one out of 10
items that happened within a SP of a
couple of decades it's famine if you
have Warfare you have famine
yeah it's not mostly bang bang you're
dead it's just that goes on too but it's
starvation when you disrupt things in
this way why didn't the Communist have
the same troubles that the K Tong had in
terms of not being able to pay it's was
soldiers I mean it was the same China
right it wasn't a developed economy so
why didn't they have trouble paying
their soldiers and retaining them oh I
think it's because everyone's on all on
board uh about the peasants have got
their land the only way they're ever
going to keep it they think is by
supporting the Communists and then
they're all Mau isn't living any kind of
luxurious life there's no that was
another thing that you have these rich
uh officer Corp and the nationalists
flaunting their wealth among absolutely
starving people and that's another
reason why they're hated whereas uh the
Communists never had those people so no
one's flaunting their wealth you you saw
the pictures of ma and his beloved there
in the uh these incredibly baggy
clothing uh no one's got luxury uh
luxury we we or anything although after
they wi ma is like famously a fan of
luxury and has uh right in in a way that
I think Stalin would sleep on his couch
in his uh in his office yeah I don't
know the details on ma ma had other
things that it had to do with little
girls but anyway okay so if we go you're
just mentioning to China the period of
turmoil constantly there's in
insurgencies and chaos and then we go to
all the turmoil that Mao causes all the
people when he gets in power tens of
millions of people are dying and yet
there's never a major Insurgency after
he takes power there's never a coup that
works Communists are good at this when
the North Vietnamese win what do they
promptly get famine and in Vietnam I
think you have kind of three harvests
like how do you ever have famine in that
place but uh yeah they did uh Comm this
is the Brilliance of Communism is this
commissar system and the party system
and how they set up their government
it's incredibly effective about
maintaining power it's a very effective
about seizing power during Warfare
maintaining it that thereafter but it
does not deliver Prosperity it it
delivers compounding poverty take a look
at North Korea it's a mess but the man's
in power why don't the high level
officials in the CCP after they see the
impact of the Great lead forward the the
lakes and the DJ pings why don't
they well they they they um uh uh he he
wasn't running day-to-day Affairs but in
terms of making sure he's never in a
position to in the future do the c
reolution um this is when you get uh P
who uh this he was the General that was
in charge of forces during the Korean
War and also long he Long March
generation he had lost several of his
siblings to starvation over the course
of these Civil Wars and uh he he he and
leachi pulled the plug on Mao and then
ma is uh demoted from one of his POS
positions uh and that's when you get the
cultural revolution cuz uh Mao is on his
way out of power from these guys so what
does Mao do is he um rallies he gets out
of Beijing and he rallies the youth the
red guards these are the children who've
been educated in communist education
about how wonderful the Communists are
and beloved chairman M so CH chairman
now tells the teenagers that they should
be in charge think about teenagers not
much like experience but telling them
they're in charge and then they start
out by killing off their teachers right
they have teachers they probably don't
like and it's incredibly empowering and
then they start working their way up the
educational system and fan outward and
uh it's like a semi Civil War and then
this is when Lyn bow comes in who is a
military leader and Ma's going to use
him to restore order uh but after he's
out Ed all the people who are going to
get rid of him that's what the cultural
revolution is about and it it um is
ruinous for production right doing all
this and you're gutting your education
Sy educational system like all the
people who gave the hard grades who may
have actually known something they're
gone from Ma's
perspective didn't the cultural
revolution work extremely well because
for him yeah for China he launches it
because he sees kushev speech in 1956
denouncing Stalin and what he had done
he didn't want the same thing to happen
to him after he dies and today look that
the portrait of Mao hangs
in hangs in the square and he's like
revered in a way that Hitler or Stalin
aren't revered in their countries
despite killing more people so yeah well
though I think Stalin's having a bit of
a comeback with Vladimir
Putin so and and Vladimir Putin is
starting to mimic more of the um
centralized he's going to recentralize
his economy in ways that start looking
like the old one when people say things
like xan Ping is acting like Mao how do
you react knowing how Mao actually
behaved oh XI Jin ping apparently
reveres Mao my understanding about XI
Jin Ping's education is his dad was a
very highlevel communist leader who was
purged but not killed and sent to sort
of interior North somewhere in China and
so when she was on the what is it the
down to the countryside movement where a
lot of kids were sent to really horrible
places he was sent I think where his dad
was so what or or where protector who
liked his dad War so it wasn't as bad as
it could be but um he was not well
educated because he couldn't be in that
period right it's during the cult he may
have degrees from places but the
institution in question during the the
cultural revolution wasn't delivering an
education so he he's a believer in
communism don't don't ever kid yourself
that the the Communist Party of China
doesn't believe in communism now they
think they've modified some of the uh
economic stuff
under dun shaing but now they're
recentralizing it right back the way it
was given that the uh the fact that he
personally suffered during the cultural
revolution I think there's a story that
at some point because his dad was
denounced he was denounced and he like
tried to come back to their home to get
fed by his mother and his mother had to
turn him away this happens to him during
the cultural
revolution how do you explain these like
um the CCP officials who personally
suffered during the cultural revolution
being prau I mean Stalin was abused as a
child and then he's incredibly abusive
Hitler was abused as a child why why
would you expect what you're assuming
the man I I used the word psych
sociopath or psychopath I both apply to
him uh don't think he's going to have
any Tender Mercies for anyone I mean his
own son is uh oh he abandoned various
sets of kids who starved to death and
died and one son he put him right up in
Korea where he could get killed and he
promptly
did so oh and Stalin that was another
great one well the Nazis captured
Stalin's son and wanted to trade him for
some something and Stalin said nah n
n h how do people in China today think
about Mao and why why aren't they more
pissed off you know you look at these
numbers I I'm I'm guessing I'm not
Chinese um but I think all of us need to
be proud of things and of course one
thing to be very proud of if you're CH
Chinese is Chinese civilization these
enormous achievements and
philosophy in The
Sciences uh all kinds of Arts it's
incredible but many Chinese also want to
feel proud of their leaders and so ma is
incredibly
consequential and I think it's also
really
hard um to look at the dark side of your
own country this country has slavery it
is our original sin we have not gotten
over it and the part of the United
states where slavery was most deeply
embedded to this day has the deepest
problems dealing with that so if
Americans who are rich and have
everything have trouble with these
things why would we think and this
country has so much to be that's just
obvious be proud of like you know we're
uh just the wealth and Innovation and
things of recent Innovation and then we
claim we won all these Wars all by our
Lonesome and of course we had allies
come on but um I think that's part of it
is
understanding uh the Chinese history's
been so sad if you ever go to a Chinese
movie you hear the ardor whatever the
whatever the the instrument is is are
whatever it is I've got the word wrong
um it's just so sad and Melancholy
whereas American movies are all happy
millions of people die but the good guys
live right it's always a happy and what
is it uh what the Arnold schwate L and
True Lies oh honey they're all bad I
mean that's I want to try out an idea on
you so you've tried many what's what's
the
latest um
the one could claim that Ma being so
terrible and being this strong counter
example is what the reformers needed in
order to create China's postm growth in
the sense that if you to like really
abandon communism and pursue PR growth
policies you needed visually the culture
of Revolution as a counter example the
great Le forward to say no we got to try
something else possible definitely
possible because of all the people who
are ruined by it but I think there's
another one you should give the
Taiwanese great credit Taiwan did an
after Action Report uh they're one of
the four Asian tigers that uh went from
a very poor country to an absolutely
wealthy country and I think it's around
1990 is where Taiwan one is I think the
statistics I'll try this it's got
150th the population of the Mainland
it's got 1 1250th of the land mass of
the Mainland and it has about 40% of the
GNP uh and if you're try P PRC Mainland
looking at this uh how
embarrassing The Losers of the war have
won the peace and put you to shame for
how competently brutal you are and
that's taiwan's problem to this day is
that they are a rebuke to everything of
the Communist party is and there used to
be This Racist notion that oh oh Han
Chinese and democracy incompatible can't
do that well China uh Taiwan has proven
that wrong and look at Taiwan they have
what is it their chip
Foundry incredible no one can duplicate
it
right impressive tell me something that
China has that can't that no one can
duplicate except for crazy
stuff what I find disturbing about
communism in comparison to I maybe even
like especially Chinese communism is if
you when Hitler is killing the the Jews
he doesn't make them first say listen
you know we were responsible for World
War one which he falsely claimed and we
renounce her Semitic ways or something
and with the cultural revolution with
with Chinese commun like there's a very
important aspect where the victim must
participate in their own victimization
they must be the one to uh say I'm
guilty in a way that didn't seem
necessary in other kinds of oh well
Hiller's just trying to annihilate
people so he didn't care what they're
going to tell him he's just going to
kill them all so that's it's complet
he's into destroying every last year
there is right plus Gypsies and some
other people so that's a separate thing
China has a long tradition of Education
I me what's Confucianism about it's the
scholars at the top to right it's um in
Japan it's the general the shogun's at
the top in China the soldiers at the
bottom of the soci social pyramid and
it's all about educating people and then
the entire imperial system how did you
get uh mobility and there was actually a
way of Mobility it's take the Imperial
exams and if you pass them and do well
you're off and running so and there's
also a tradition of re-educating people
uh you could shoot everybody you could
but that's not uh the Chinese TR
tradtion the the loads of people dying
is a lot of it starvation so people like
Duna ping who if he'd been in Russia
they just Stalin killed all the old
Bolsheviks right there was no chance to
come back whereas the Chinese will put
people in prison and try to re-educate
them and then you let them out
afterwards it's a tradition of educating
people different culture different
approaches to these things yeah if you
look at you're mentioning uh um chek's
Purge of the Communist where he just
massacred thousands of them uh whereas
other he's a soldier whereas other
people even other nationalists wanted to
be accommodate the Communists more uh
especially early on and he I think he
has one quote that you know the the the
Japanese are a disease of the flesh but
the Communists are a disease of the Soul
so what was the nature of his
anticommunism because I mean in
retrospect obviously the means we don't
endorse but he he was right about that
that understanding what would happen to
the communist he was interested in the
communism and he sent his son Jang jingu
to Russia to study and actually his son
was hostage up there he married a a
Russian and that's one of the reasons
you don't have a jang Dynasty because
these children are not 100% Han right
because their mom's Russian and uh
however as he learned more about it
because initially he's interested in
that he's interested playing fascism as
well and how you organize
uh aide and he studied in Japan knew a
great deal about how the Japanese had
done things he I think he military
education there as well uh but then he
starts realizing how dangerous they are
he was accurate he did not want to fight
the Japanese at all and he was forced to
by Chinese students among others and uh
a lot of the urban Elite that he
depended on who are horrified with what
Japan was doing but shankai Sheek knew
you only take on one enemy at a time
you'll become overwhelmed if you do and
he believed that really you needed he
needed to kind of accommodate or put the
Japanese aside fight the Communists get
rid of them and then uh he's hoping the
United States will get in or something
that then he could deal the Japanese
separately uh but he got faced so much
popular pressure that that's when he go
the Shion incident takes place in the
end of 36 where he agrees to form the
second united front because he realizes
is he'll be overthrown by popular uh
hatred of the Japanese thinking they
have to fight the Japanese so he didn't
have his choices on Military strategies
at the end there when you read Western
journalists who are
covering the the CH communist in China
sympathetically people like Edgar snow
and this is not just true of China
Walter duranti covering up the hollow
demore in
Russia what's going on psychologically
how do you understand their their
naivity here oh I don't know about the
uh the the other guy but I do know about
Edgar snow so Edgar snow is was in the
depression uh he's from the Midwest he
was bored a young man he wants an
adventure so he goes off to China so
this typical um and uh he's in these
cities where he's seeing nationalist
corruption and it's evident there and Ma
is looking for a foreign journalist
there had been a guy Jack Reed who'
written however many days of the Russian
Revolution back during the Russian
Revolution who' really popularized it I
suspect but I don't know that Ma
probably needed his own Jack Reed and
Edgar snow seemed the perfect guy
because he's a very good writer you want
someone who can write well and he's
young and naive so what was it
uh sonat s the founding father of China
is married to one of the S Sun sisters
another one of the sun sisters is
married to shankai Sheek and there's a
third one who's married to a banker but
anyway it's the Communist one who uh
puts Ma on I think to Edgar snow so
someone goes to Edgar and says hey you
want to come up to yenan to interview
the big man and Edgar goes sure and they
infiltrate him through Japanese lines
and all the rest of it and there's M the
busy man who's spending hours with the
30-year-old or I don't even know if he
says 20-y old I can't remember how old
he was and Edgar snow doesn't get it
like why is he spending all this time
with me and he's taken by it and he see
Ma's of course showing him all the good
stuff right so Edgar Snow's seeing all
the happy peasants who've got the land
and they're cooperating in the gorilla
this and that and he is what is it he is
the last person to get out of yanan and
then the Japanese in the war just shuts
it down so no one's got any more
information about ma ever so Edgar snow
writes his book red star of China he
gives the drafts to ma oh yeah he does
the ma interviews and then he has MA
correct them uh and his translator
corrupt them back and forth back and
forth which isn't the normal thing and
then over the different additions of red
star of China because I've actually read
them and and followed the changes um
more and more of it gets eliminated uh
the original version has all kinds of
pictures of people that Mouse
subsequently purges so those pictures go
away all references those people go away
and they're no longer the
index and Edgar snow goes on goes along
with this and for the rest of his life
he is publishing books that are VAR
variational theme on this book it's the
only thing that makes him important
before he dies is he discredited no um
ma wanted him it was right when um Nixon
was reopening China um ma desperately
wanted Edgar snow to cover that and
Edgar snow got pancreatic cancer and he
was living in swis he'd run in trouble
with the McCarthy era as you can well
imagine for good reasons actually and uh
so ma sends his personal physician or
something to attend to uh Edgar snow but
pancreatic cancer still kills and it it
killed him so no and um this was a even
though people Edgar snow knew had been
purged during uh these various campaigns
and also the Great Famine he denied all
of it till the very end because this is
what made him important and so it's the
that's what he was to the end of his
life me me me me me when you had the
slogans up about what Ma is telling the
peasants uh or the you know the
different slogans he would come up with
it's not tremendously sophisticated
stuff it's like one line that's catchy
or something a tweet
yeah still works I mean why why was this
enough you know you you can just write
one line and that's it's not enough I
think it's if you're talking talking
about someone who has no power the one
thing they've got are words and so this
is how it turns
out strategic communication or whatever
the the jargon is for it is terribly
important and we're finding it now right
we're wondering on uh what is actually
fake news what's disinformation what's
accurate what's not what's deliberately
inaccurate who's posting it where it's
powerful you you can see it in the
current election of how important uh
information is and Ma and the Communists
play it well and the Russians absolutely
understand how to do this this is their
uh they're really good at understanding
both sides fighting and then you feed
information both ways so that they're
just at each other's throats and being
more and more dysfunctional oh yeah when
was the last time you were allowed to go
into the archives in China oh it wasn't
a question of being allowed um uh um I
got a fellowship right uh it was
supposed to happen right after ten in
and that that got closed down that was
ten was in June of ' 89 so the
fellowship was uh delayed for half a
year and then we went for all of
1990 and so um I used different archives
but then I I did other things like um I
had two children and I stayed at home
with them and um I was the the spouse
that didn't travel so that there would
be stability in little people's lives
and uh now I would no more visit China
you've got to be kidding and the the
archives have shut down now and and then
the Russian archives it was again it was
early gorbachov when the archives were
opening they're slam shut now it's um
it's funny to hear you say I wouldn't
visit China now so in two weeks I'm GNA
go to China and I my next question have
fun my next question was going to be
your advice keep your mouth shut be a
good guest uh and uh don't bring any
computer s uh equipment that you ever
tend to use ever again in link with
anything yeah when when you're in these
archives and you're studying all these
atrocities that happen I mean if you
look at the numbers themselves it might
be fair to call it genuinely the worst
thing that ever happened in human
history in terms of pure uh number of
deaths and that's that's a hard record
to match if you look at everything else
that's happened in human history
um viscerally what's the reaction just
going through record after record of
this kind of oh it's just tra it's
tragedy it's The Human
Condition uh and don't think that China
is unique in this the West has butchered
itself butcher westerners have butchered
each other in fact the West
industrializes Warfare so instead before
you had to go at it with Spears and that
slowed people down with Industrial
Equipment um so it's it's human sadly uh
humans have great capacity for
creativity and doing wonderful things
and then they have great capacity to do
awful things so let's do one and not the
other that seems like a pretty good
place to
close Sarah this is this is I mean I I
don't want to say fun because we're
talking about ma here but it was it was
interesting you want to save your
reputation
great thank you you're welcome thank you
for coming